rebase + sign hetzner blog article (#33)
mesosphere/d2iq-engineering-blog: content/posts/capi-providers-run-dkp-on-hetzner-cloud/index.md

---
authors: ["ksahm"]
title: "CAPI Providers - Run DKP on Hetzner Cloud"
date: 2022-08-30T09:12:53+02:00
featured: false
tags: ["CAPI", "Kubernetes", "DKP", "Hetzner", "Multicluster"]
excerpt: "Learn how to add the custom CAPI provider for Hetzner and create DPK clusters on top of Hetzner Cloud"
feature_image: hetzner.png
---

# Run DKP on Hetzner with Cluster API (CAPI)

> The D2iQ Kubernetes Platform (DKP) makes your operational life easier. Instead of wasting time researching the CNCF landscape for the right tools to solve your enterprise requirements,  and struggling with the implementation and lifecycle, you can use a fully curated, integrated, and supported Day 2 ready, out of the box platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The D2iQ Kubernetes Platform (DKP) makes your operational life easier. Instead of wasting time researching the CNCF landscape for the right tools to solve your enterprise requirements, and struggling with the implementation and lifecycle, you can use a fully curated, integrated, and supported Day 2 ready, out of the box platform.
```

DKP supported CAPI infrastructures provide an easy to use infrastructure-as-code approach that eliminates the headache around the complexity of the development and lifecycle challenges of Kubernetes. DKP supports the following infrastructure providers out of the box:

* [AKS][capz]
* [AWS][capa]
* [Azure][capz]
* [EKS][capa]
* [GCP][capg]
* Preprovisioned (based on Ansible, requires SSH)
* [VMware vSphere][capv]

> Beside the pre-integrated, supported providers you have the possibility to bring in any other CAPI provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beside the pre-integrated, supported providers, you can bring in any other CAPI provider.
```

Reviewer: The comma is a must to avoid an awkward sentence, but the other suggestion just helps cut down on word volume and make the point more succinct, so call this a suggestion!

This blog post shows you the needed steps to run DKP on Hetzner Cloud by using the Hetzner CAPI provider.

## What is CAPI?

Kubernetes Cluster API (CAPI) is an official sub project from Kubernetes. The goal of CAPI is to provide a modular framework for deployment and lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters. At a glance CAPI provides a declarative API and a toolset (for example `clusterctl`) to create and manage Kubernetes clusters as a Kubernetes object.
A big benefit of CAPI is the large number of infrastructure providers (24+). This provider brings in all the required integrations for the infrastructure and handles the infrastructure as code lifecycle. The user does not need to think about infrastructure topics like how virtual machines are provisioned or how to create a NAT gateway. Just define how many control plane and worker nodes, with flavor, with operating system and CAPI will deploy the cluster.

For more information, see the [official CAPI documentation][CAPI docs]

## What is Hetzner?

> Outside of Germany / DACH Hetzner is not very popular. Hetzner was founded 1997 in Germany and the portfolio is focused around colocation, bare metal server (as a service) and Hetzner Cloud. Hetzner Cloud provides a very easy to use self service offering around virtual machines (based on KVM), network, (block-) storage, and LoadBalancer. For automation approaches there are cli tools, Terraform modules and a CAPI provider available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outside of Germany / DACH Hetzner is not very popular. Hetzner was founded 1997 in Germany and the portfolio is focused around colocation, bare metal server (as a service) and Hetzner Cloud. Hetzner Cloud provides a very easy to use self service offering around virtual machines (based on KVM), network, (block-) storage, and LoadBalancer. For automation approaches there are cli tools, Terraform modules, and a CAPI provider available.
```

```bash
$ kubectl get po -n cluster-api-provider-hetzner-system
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
caph-controller-manager-7576dcbf56-wd9tc   1/1     Running   0          44s
```

All information around Hetzner CAPI provider can be found on the [official github page][hetzner capi].

## Deploy cluster

The Hetzner CAPI controller manager is up and running so the Hetzner based cluster can be deployed. The first steps are exporting all required environment variables to configure the template.

```bash
export HCLOUD_TOKEN="<Hetzner rw api token>"
export HCLOUD_SSH_KEY="<SSH key name>"
export CLUSTER_NAME="hetznerdemo"
export HCLOUD_REGION="fsn1"
export CONTROL_PLANE_MACHINE_COUNT=3
export WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT=3
export KUBERNETES_VERSION=1.23.7
export HCLOUD_CONTROL_PLANE_MACHINE_TYPE=cpx31
export HCLOUD_WORKER_MACHINE_TYPE=cpx31
export CLUSTER_NAMESPACE=hetzner-7wrqw-5t2tp
```

Please be sure that all exported variables are valid. The `HCLOUD_SSH_KEY` name must match with the name you set during the upload via Hetzner CLI / UI. The Kubernetes version must fit the supported K8s version range from DKP.

> See DKP release notes to validate which Kubernetes versions are supported.

Reviewer: Here's a great spot for a URL to the docs, but I'm not sure which version we're on - 2.3?
URL is: https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/2.3/2-3-release-notes

The variable `CLUSTER_NAME` defines the namespace of the DKP workspace where the cluster should be created. Please note that workspace name and namespace name can be different. You can get both via the `dkp` CLI:

```bash
$ dkp get workspace
NAME                NAMESPACE
default-workspace   kommander-default-workspace
hetzner-7wrqw       hetzner-7wrqw-5t2tp
kommander-workspace kommander
```

CAPI credentials are stored as a secret. The following commands generate a secret to store the HCLOUD_TOKEN in the defined namespace and set the `move` flag. This flag is needed if CAPI components needs to move from the bootstrap cluster to another cluster. This step is absolutely necessary if you run CAPI on local bootstrap cluster (via `dkp create bootstrap`).

```bash
$ kubectl create secret generic hcloud-token-${CLUSTER_NAME} \
    --from-literal=hcloud=${HCLOUD_TOKEN} -n ${CLUSTER_NAMESPACE}

secret/hcloud-token-hetznerdemo created

$ kubectl label secret hcloud-token-${CLUSTER_NAME} \
    -n ${CLUSTER_NAMESPACE} \
    clusterctl.cluster.x-k8s.io/move=""

secret/hcloud-token-hetznerdemo labeled
```

> After all variables are set correctly and the secret is created the `clusterctl` command can be used to create the Hetzner cluster manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all variables are set correctly and the secret is created, the `clusterctl` command can be used to create the Hetzner cluster manifest.
```

```bash
clusterctl generate cluster --infrastructure hetzner:v1.0.0-beta.0 \
    ${CLUSTER_NAME} -n ${CLUSTER_NAMESPACE} > ${CLUSTER_NAME}.yaml
```

The default configuration of the Hetzner CAPI provider uses the same secret name `hetzner` for every cluster. This could be problematic if there is the need to deploy multiple clusters placed in different Hetzner projects in the same workspace. One solution is to used a dedicated secret per cluster, in this case a secret with the name `hcloud-token-${CLUSTER_NAME}`.

> If you use dedicated secret names you need to patch the generated cluster manifest to set the individual token secret name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use dedicated secret names, you need to patch the generated cluster manifest to set the individual token secret name.
```

---
authors: ["ksahm"]
title: "CAPI Providers - Run DKP on Hetzner Cloud"
date: 2022-08-30T09:12:53+02:00
featured: false
tags: ["CAPI", "Kubernetes", "DKP", "Hetzner", "Multicluster"]

> excerpt: "Learn how to add the custom CAPI provider for Hetzner and create DPK clusters on top of Hetzner Cloud"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Learn how to add the custom CAPI provider for Hetzner and create DKP clusters on top of Hetzner Cloud"
```

# Run DKP on Hetzner with Cluster API (CAPI)

The D2iQ Kubernetes Platform (DKP) makes your operational life easier. Instead of wasting time researching the CNCF landscape for the right tools to solve your enterprise requirements,  and struggling with the implementation and lifecycle, you can use a fully curated, integrated, and supported Day 2 ready, out of the box platform.
DKP supported CAPI infrastructures provide an easy to use infrastructure-as-code approach that eliminates the headache around the complexity of the development and lifecycle challenges of Kubernetes. DKP supports the following infrastructure providers out of the box:

> * [AKS][capz]

Reviewer 3: Should this point to D2iQ's documentation?

Reviewer: Good question/point, Deepak. IMO, if there's anything relating to further documentation we should definitely add a URL back to docs.d2iq.com.

Author: done

Since 2021 a datacenter in Ashburn, Virginia is also available to run workload in the United States of America.

For more information, see [Hetzner's website][hetzner].

## Prerequisites / Environment

To start with the deployment of your first cluster at Hetzner Cloud you need the following tools and informations:

* DKP command line tool (version 2.2+)
* Running DKP Enterprise (to attach the Hetzner cluster)
  * [Create Workspace][create workspace docs]
* [kubectl][kubectl] command line tool
* [helm][helm] command line tool
* [clusterctl][clusterctl] command line tool (see https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#install-clusterctl)
* [Hetzner][hetzner] account
  * Create a project
  * Upload your SSH public key
  * Generate a readwrite API token for the project

The generated API token will be used for the cluster creation and lifecycle process.

## Deploy Hetzner CAPI provider

> Hetzner is not one of DKP's provided CAPI providers so you need to deploy the CAPI provider to your centralized DKP Enterprise cluster first.

Reviewer 3: please change to ... to your DKP Enterprise management cluster first

> Hetzner is not one of DKP's provided CAPI providers so you need to deploy the CAPI provider to your centralized DKP Enterprise cluster first.

Reviewer 3: please change to ... DKP's supported

    ├─Machine/hetznerdemo-md-0-5d44f56679-c4qbd                              True                     34m
    │ └─MachineInfrastructure - HCloudMachine/hetznerdemo-md-0-42jxt
    └─Machine/hetznerdemo-md-0-5d44f56679-sgj75                              True                     34m
      └─MachineInfrastructure - HCloudMachine/hetznerdemo-md-0-k2kws

$ kubectl get no -n kube-system --kubeconfig ${CLUSTER_NAME}.kubeconfig

NAME                              STATUS   ROLES                  AGE   VERSION
hetznerdemo-control-plane-trw68   Ready    control-plane,master   12m   v1.23.7
hetznerdemo-control-plane-wfnhv   Ready    control-plane,master   35m   v1.23.7
hetznerdemo-control-plane-zrsgz   Ready    control-plane,master   15m   v1.23.7
hetznerdemo-md-0-42jxt            Ready    <none>                 33m   v1.23.7
hetznerdemo-md-0-k2kws            Ready    <none>                 33m   v1.23.7
hetznerdemo-md-0-mq7gc            Ready    <none>                 33m   v1.23.7
```

You can also see all the resources via Hetzner UI (sorry, German account!):
![Launched VMs in Hetzner UI](vms.png)

## Attach cluster to DKP Enterprise

> At this stage, CAPI successfully deployed the cluster and the CAPI controller running at the DKP Enterprise centralized cluster is handling the lifecycle.

Reviewer 3: please change to ... DKP Enterprise management cluster

kube-node-lease          Active   44m
kube-public              Active   44m
kube-system              Active   44m
```

All pre enabled applications from the Application Catalog (like Traefik) will be deployed to the target cluster now.

## Get Traefik up and running

For Traefik we need to set an additional service label. Otherwise, Kubernetes is not able to create the external LoadBalancer.
Please set the following settings to our Traefik deployment (via DKP Enterprise UI or cli):

```yaml
service:
  annotations:
    load-balancer.hetzner.cloud/location: "<REGION>"
```

`REGION` must match with the REGION defined in environment variable `HCLOUD_REGION`

## Recap

> DPK Enterprise is a powerful Kubernetes Distribution which is built on state of the art technologies like Kubernetes and Cluster API. D2iQ ships 7 CAPI providers out-of-the-box as part of the DKP product.

Reviewer 3: nit: typo DKP

> DPK Enterprise is a powerful Kubernetes Distribution which is built on state of the art technologies like Kubernetes and Cluster API. D2iQ ships 7 CAPI providers out-of-the-box as part of the DKP product.

Reviewer 3: maybe ... DKP Enterprise is a multi-cloud management platform...
